Welcome back everyone.
This lecture on text classification and this particular lecture we're going to go from start to finish
for the full text classification code along project will be working for a movie review dataset and then
being able to tell whether a movie review is positive or negative based off the texts.
Let's get started.
Let's begin by checking out our data set for this project.
We're going to be using a movie review a data set and we're going to try to develop a classification
model just what we did with the spam collection dataset.
However we're going to be trying to predict simply based off the text of a movie review if that movie
review is positive or negative on the movie.
So we're wanted to import some pie and as and import pandas as PD and we've actually already downloaded
this movie review that it for you.
So you simply need to read it in using the read C S V and you can read it in from the text files folder.
It's called Movie reviews and it's the first one without the two Ts V and it's separated by tabs because
the TSB file.
So you just indicate the separator is backslash T and then we can check the head of the document with
the head.
And here we can see the label.
So if it's negative or positive review and then the actual review itself.
If you check out the length of this data frame here we have 2000 reviews.
Let's go ahead and take a look at one of the reviews.
I can do this simply by saying F and then as a string passen review and then off of this index one of
the reviews so he can index the first one.
And here we have the entire review.
And if you want.
You can even attempt to print this out and you can see here.
This is a negative review of the movie and we can check out a positive view of the movie.
Let's go ahead and do index to.
So here you can see a positive review of the movie and we're going to do is using the raw text attempts
to predict whether a movie review is positive or negative.
You can imagine if we're running a site like rotten tomatoes we would then be able to automatically
scrape the Internet and decide if a review is positive or negative.
We're going to do is first check for missing values just as we did before.
It's important that we check for missing values because a lot of real world data will be missing values
so we can do this by simply saying T.F. is null and in taking the some.
And here we can see while we aren't missing any labels we are missing a few reviews.
So some of the reviews seem to be just completely empty.
We can remove these and am not a number or none.
Reviews by saying the F drop and a and then we're going to also say in place is equal to true.
That way it's a permanent drop.
And then if we say F is null and take the sum of that you'll notice now we are not having any missing
values.
However whenever you're dealing with text data formatted like this it's important to understand that
often databases will actually instead of putting in a a number or a null value.
When I review or piece of text is missing they actually put an empty string or a blank string.
What we want to do is understand and detect and remove empty strings and we can do this through a variety
of methods.
What we're going to show you is probably the simplest method which is to start off with an empty list.
Iterate over that data frame and then just check the review for whitespace or check the reviews length
and then double check to make sure that there's actually a review there.
So again lots of different ways to do this but here's kind of a simple way we're going to set up a list
of blanks and then we're going to iterate through our data frame.
So we're going to say for I comma Elby comma Arvie in deep thought itor tuples.
So this is going to return.
It's going to return a tuple of the index location the label value and then the review text itself.
And we're going to do as we iterate through every row in the data frame.
We'll check if the review is just simply whitespace.
So we're checking if that review is whitespace and what we can do is we can actually do the is space
method off a string.
So I want to show you what I mean by that when I quickly create a string here.
We're going to say my string is equal to hello and let's create an empty string.
So just empty whitespace string will say empty is equal to.
And here and is going to have an empty string.
So a method I can call off the string.
I can say my string and there's an is space method.
So I can check is space in all turnback a boolean true or false.
Notice that if I run this same method off that empty variable which is an empty string it's going to
say true and if it's multiple spaces it's still going to return true.
So again this is a way we can use to detect whether or not something is empty just full of whitespace.
So I'll say if that particular review Arvi thought is space check your spelling on this.
So there's two s's and then we're going to say blanks in the pen.
The exposition.
So now I'm basically collecting the index position of these blank statements.
And now if I take a look at blinks here are all the index positions of reviews that are actually just
empty whitespace.
So we're going to want to drop these index positions as well and we can do that simply by saying DSF
drop and then we're going to pass in that list of index positions those blanks and again we'll say in
place as equal to true.
And if I finally check the length of McLean that data frame it's 1938.
So remember the original data frame if we take a look at it was 2000 but we ended up dropping missing
data as well as dropping empty string data.
And now we finally have our cleaned data frame.
So we're going to do now is go ahead and split the data into a training set and a test set.
We can do this simply by saying from S-K learned model selection import train test split and then we'll
set X equal to the if review and y equal to DSF label and then we call train to split.
And I was just going to do shift type here to scroll down and then copy and paste this X train x test
Y train Y test line and then set that equal to that following.
And then we're going to do person X Y and then if you want it can pass in a test size.
So we'll just use 0.3 or default and then we'll see a random state as an arbitrary number 42.
OK so we just perform our train to split.
Now it's time to actually build a pipeline to vectorize that data then train and fit the model so it
will say as we learn that pipeline import pipeline and then we'll say from S-K learned that feature
extraction text import and here we're just going to use that to effect razor and then we'll save from
S-K learn thought SVM
implore and we'll use a linear support vector classifier.
Then we set up our pipeline.
Just as we saw in previous lectures by creating a pipeline object as a list of tuples of the steps it's
up to you whatever string you want to provide here for naming this particular step will say T.F. idea.
And then we passen an instance of the T.F. idea.
Vectorize or.
And then the next tuple we're going to passen is simply going to be the classifier itself.
We can call it CNF and then we pass an instance of the linear support vector classifier we run that
and then it's time to actually fit the pipeline.
So we say text CNF now we fit this to our training data
we run that.
And again you may get a warning pending on what version of sikat learn you're using.
That's OK for the future warning.
And now it's time to perform predictions so it can say predictions is equal to tech sealife and let's
predict on our test data so we can then compare it to our y data we'll say from S-K learn that metrics
import and we'll import a confusion matrix the classification report and the accuracy score and let's
run all those.
So a confusion matrix pasan our true test values and test them against our predictions.
So you can see we're doing all right here.
Let's go in and check out the classification report.
We'll say print classification report Y test along with the predictions.
And then here we can explore our precision recall an EF 1 score looks like for both classes we're doing
almost the exact same or on 85 percent F 1 score or 0.5 EF 1 score is not really a percentage.
And then all we want to do here is finally point out the accuracy.
So you can print out the accuracy score on why test against the predictions.
And here it looks like we're getting around again 85 percent accuracy.
So we're getting 0.5 for precision recall and accuracy which is pretty amazing given the fact that we're
doing this with just a few lines of code.
And more importantly we're able to do this based off the raw text of the actual review.
So just by reading the raw text we're now able to understand the for review is positive or negative.
So now it could set up our own movie review site that goes through the Internet scrapes text reviews.
We run it through our classifier and then we could tally up and make some sort of percentage across
the Internet.
If this movie was rated positively or negatively.
OK so that's it for this next classification project.
Coming up next we're going to make sure that you fully understand what's going on by giving you a very
similar task for your assessment.
Basically you're going to repeat these similar steps on the movie review to that text file just to make
sure you understand we're going to walk you through it and then we'll go over the solutions.
So we'll see in the next lecture where we have an overview of the assessment.